Introduction to Practical Cyber Security Testing - Week 1: Password & workstation security
====


## About the lab

Topic: Hashes, breaking hashes, John the Ripper, passwordless, SSO, MFA

TODO: add descriptory text about the lab and this week's topic


## Prerequisites

<details><summary>Details</summary>

* Hashing, authentication

</details>


## System Requirements

<details><summary>Details</summary>

* John the Ripper

</details>


## Grading

<details><summary>Details</summary>

This course uses GitHub Classroom with Autograding, meaning that your assignments are automatically graded! To find out your score, check the results of github actions after pushing your answers. No cheating!

Task #|Grade/Level|Description|
-----|:---:|-----------|
Task 1 | 1 | TODO: brief task descriptions and what each grade requires

</details>

---


## Task 1: Install John the Ripper to your computer and try to crack a password.

John the Ripper can be installed from https://www.openwall.com/john/

The instruction for installing are in GitHub: https://github.com/openwall/john/blob/bleeding-jumbo/doc/INSTALL

Use jumbo source packet for installing.

Project has rows from /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow files copied from Raspberry Pi OS.

Make a combined password file:
run/unshadow passwd shadow > mypasswd

Download a list about most common passwords:
rockyou.txt

Give the password list as a command option and password file as a parameter:
run/john --wordlist=... mypasswd

The answer of the exercise is the cracked password in the mypasswd file.



---

## Task 2: Single-sign on with Python

Install libraries pyotp and qrcode.

Create functions create_qr and get_current_code

Test the qr file by installing Google Authenticator to your mobile phone.

Add the key you created into the authenticator by reading the qr code.

Compare the codes in phone to the ones generated by the program.

---

## Task 3: Try Multi-Factor Authentication with Python

This task requires Boto3 library



---

## Task 4: Try to hash the message with Python

What was the message?



---

## Task 5: Do the passwordless authentication with Python

What function did you use for authentication?


---

## Task 6

### A) TODO
```

```

### B) TODO
```

```

---

## Task 7

### A) TODO
```

```

### B) TODO
```

```

---

## Task 8

### A) TODO
```

```

### B) TODO
```

```
